- [Instructor] We saw how easy it was to package
a Java application in a Docker image
and run it as a Docker container.
But that still required a lot of hard coding,
or building or authoring a Docker file,
and then running the command.
Now typically, when you are packaging a Java application,
or when you're building a Java application,
you use tools like Maven.
And then you say, Maven clean package,
and it just packages it for you.
So, what are my options?
Now this section will show you how can you
easily use a Docker Maven plug-in
to embed that as part of your usual development cycle.
So for that, we're going to look at the Java repo,
and then we will take a look at the project,
and then we will show you the commands.
First thing, let's take a look
at this simple Docker Java sample.
Now you can check out from this GitHub repo over here,
click on clone or download,
and you can clone this repo very easily.
I've already cloned this repo,
and let's take a look at this repo in NetBeans.
Now here we are in NetBeans.
If I look at my source packages,
one simple app, just Hello World,
that's all we need.
Now let's look at the corresponding project file here, okay.
Now in this project file, of course,
I have a single dependency,
now if I have desk packages, then I would need this.
I have my Maven compiler plug-in.
I'm setting the version to Java 1.8.
I have my exact Maven plug-in that allows me
to execute the java application
by specifying a main class.
And I have my Maven jar plug-in as well,
which allows me to build the application.
So let's take a look at, first,
what my usual standard flow with Maven would look like.
Let's go to the terminal for a second.
And let's take a look at it.
Now, in terminal, I'm into docker-java-sample directory.
I'm going to say, mvn clean package,
and I'm going to say exec:java, okay?
If I do this, this is going to package my java application,
it's going to run the java application,
and it just prints the command Hello World.
That's really standard usual stuff
that you're aware of.
So nothing new over there.
Now let's go back to NetBeans
and see how we're going to Dockerize it.
Now if I look at my NetBeans here,
I've added a new Docker profile here.
This is a Maven profile,
so you can add whatever you want to add here,
but let's blow up my window for a second.
Now in here, I'm using docker-maven-plugin.
That is coming from the groupID io.fabric8,
this is done by the fabric8 team.
Very actively maintained,
and this is always the preferred choice
for the Docker Maven plug-in.
Now you can take a look at it,
there are a variety of Docker Maven plug-ins available,
but this is the one I've seen very actively maintained,
and the community is very healthy around it,
so this is my choice.
You're welcome to look at other options.
Now in here, for the plug-in,
I need to specify the configuration,
then I'm saying what are the images
that I need to build here.
I'm giving image a name.
If I want, I can give it a tag here,
but then we are talking about how we want
to build the image here.
So, in this case, I'm using openjdk:latest image.
And I'm saying, all right, package my artifact.
Now that's a very useful command here
because all it's saying is,
whatever artifact you are building,
just package it into my directory.
And the way the fabric8 Maven plug-in works,
it just packages all of that into a Maven directory
into your container file system.
So essentially, your command, in that sense,
can say java -jar maven, and the artifact name here.
Finally, we are saying run,
and wait for this particular output,
which is Hello World over here, okay?
So that's kind of cool, it builds the image, it runs it.
Now how does it tie to my usual Maven commands?
What I'm saying is, every time I say, package,
then it's going to build the image.
Every time I say install, it's going to run the container
and print the logs for me.
So let's take a look at the basic commands first,
and then I will show you a little bit more
extended set of commands.
Let's go to the terminal now.
I don't need to say exec java here.
I don't need to say clean.
All I need to say is mvn package -Pdocker.
So I'm specifying the Docker profile here now,
and when I hit enter here,
you can see the command that is coming out.
It's building my hello java image.
Now I can go here, I can say, Docker image ls.
Here is my hellojava image,
and it was built about eight seconds ago.
That's pretty cool.
Now, if we went with the other command that we had,
or the (mumbles) mapping,
now you can say mvn install,
I can give -Pdocker,
and now by Maven standards,
it's going to build the image first,
and then it's going to run the container.
So as we said, it built the image, and it ran the container,
and it showed me the output here.
Really cool.
So let's break the container output here,
and now go to browser for a second.
I'm in my browser here,
and I want to refer you back to the
Docker Maven plug-in documentation page.
This is the easiest source.
I always prefer the GitHub sources,
and you can see there are a variety of commands,
or other goals that are available
that you can tie to different Maven phases.
Essentially, you have commands to
create and start containers,
stop and destroy containers,
build images, push images to registry,
remove images from local Docker host,
create a volume, remove a created volume.
So essentially, in your pom xml,
you can tie all of these goals to different phases
and create a very comprehensive workflow
as part of your normal Maven cycle itself.
Now in my case, I of course put them into a profile,
and if you don't want to put it in a profile,
you can just tie it directly
without being part of a profile,
and then you say Maven package,
and it'll package the Docker image for you.
So I hope you find this Docker Maven integration useful.
And can apply it to your workplace as well.